I write this first week's journal entry filled with both excitement and some trepidation.

I feel excitement because this program is obviously preparing me for the technology of the computer programming world, shaping my ability to present myself to employers, and seeing the app contest has already helped to make the developer world I'm entering real.  I'm amazed that within four days Nick had the class work on multiple programs which included control loops, arrays, a programming flow chart, comitting and pushing programs from git to github enough times that I've got comitting and pushing down.  The programs we worked on were quite a bit more complex by the end of the week than at the beginning of the first day.  It's apparent that my programming skills and knowledge will be radically better by the time I've completed the twelve weeks.  On the other hand, I have to admit that I feel a bit annoyed about having to work on Dan's preparation work for entering the real programming work world.  But, I chose this program exactly because I need the help that Dan is requiring so that I can feel confident about making this huge career shift at this time.

On another note, I was amazed by the professional way in which the UNM & CNM Mobile app contest teams presented themselves.  I felt that, more or less, the apps presented really did provide services that real world people would find useful.  Most interesting to me upon learning that a deepdive team won second place was that the deepdive team had 12 weeks of immersive training while the teams from UNM were made up of students who had been in the UNM program for years.  The kind of development students undergoe in the boot-camp program is amazing.  

On the other hand, the amount of material and different subjects that we have been required to work through in just the first week of the program makes me feel that I'm just feeling the first gusts of an oncoming hurricane of learning and activites which will push me to the edge emotionally as well as mentally.  But the accomplishment of the deepdive team that won second place in the app contest tells me that if I just pace myself and keep calm that I can make it through the program and be ready for success.  A bit of a side note, I heard Dan mention the Pomodoro Technique.  I started using the Pomodoro a few months ago both for my work and for working on programming at home.  I have already been using the Pomodoro Technique to good effect this first week.